"Mate, all these fucks are just gooners by another name, aren't they?", Grodger lamented.

Machines stood in front of them. Machines, stainless steel coffins, about the size of apartment rooms. Men, their masculine presence, laid inside each one of them. 

Penises the size of ferrets; some cut, some uncut. And yet flaccid all the same.
Grodger trounced to a machine.
It's brazen touch pad stared back at them with the ever-original sterile blue-tinged light.

The carcinomic implant in their testes awoke with a writhing.
Grodger's legs instinctively closed together, bladder calling their brain to say "she's gonna have a wittle infantile accident again".
"Fuck. What do you want now mate? Little prissy nutslut..."

A gurgling noise erupted from its crotch.
"those "gooners"? they're yer fockin' clientele."

Another tremble from their bladder shook him.

"GAH! STOP MAKING ME WANT TO PISS YOU NUTSLUT! i'M NOT GOING BACK IN THOSE DIAPERS AGAin!"
Its voice cracked with a steep crescendo.

"maybe, if you didn't call yer contract boss a fockin' 'orno 'ddict, I wouldn't be so harsh on yer. Besides, you luv 2 kum from bein' a wittle infantile escapist, doncha'?~"

"i' ALSo WON'T KOOM THIS FUCKING TIME!"

The man in the iron box erected himself, staring with a logician's expression.
A picture-perfect replica of an Arno Brecker statue. 

Carcinomic Implant A writhed.
"see, the 'lient is yon! 'ope yer have sum gooning 'un with 'im!"
Carcinomic Implant A fell into a stone-cold tempdeath.

"Hello? You there gooner?"

The man in the iron box sprinted to the door before slamming against its physicality.
His skin clammy, with streams of sweat, the odour of a middle school locker room.

"HELLO. IZ THIS MY 'SOY' HANDLER! EVEN IN YON DAYS OF josef 'KOSCHEI' bidenscheimer I WOVLD 'AVE GOTTEN BETTER SERVICE!"
A dry industrial clacking erupted from the iron-box man's breathing apparatus.

"Do you want me to punch in the code or leave you to goon to death in silence?"
Another painful twinge from her bladder forced her to the ground.
Tears fell from its swelled eye-sacs.
A visible bulge on her belly, reddened like a breeding whore's fifth pregnancy.

"AH! LE 'SOY' HANDLER UNALIVED BY HER OWN IMPUDENCE! HOW CHANDLERIAN!"

"...fuck off..."
Another twinge released the flood gates.
It shuddered with pleasure and relief, hot piss covering his thighs.
It came and went in spurts, each easing the pressure until the bladder's whining fell silent.
All at the cost of Grodger's dignity. 

Supported by its own arm, they assumed a weak kneeling position, a potent stench of ammonia wafting up from her thighs.
She wretched.
His other arm slowly and shakily input the code into the glorified refridgerator in front of them.
"FINALLY! I AM BEKUM RELEASED-MAN, WALKER OF LEGS!"

"...please, talk like a normal gooner for once..."
A deep throbbing pain emanated from her testes, forcing its thorax to collapse in suffering.
Her insect-like graspers clutched its found-family jewels.
Yet nothing made the pain better; it came from inside, the very depths of existence.







