Since the dawn of Western philosophy the meaning and status of unity has been a central preoccupation. According to the ancient Greek philosopher Parmenides, and to his disciple Plato, the true nature of reality was indivisible and unchanging. In contrast, the multiple and the transient were dismissed and denigrated as mere appearances; deceptions derived from the body and the senses. The tendency of these thinkers was to idealize unity as a supreme and eternal being above and beyond the many, the origin of - and ultimate sovereign over - the world. This intellectual trend was consolidated by the neoplatonic philosopher Plotinus, whose relation to 'The One' crystallized into an uncompromising mystical devotion. When further reinforced by the doctrinal commitments of Judeo-Christian and Islamic monotheism over the course of the following centuries this deification of unity hardened into a fundamental cultural orthodoxy.
According to Deleuze & Guattari the philosophical conception of unity is not original, but is derived from the organizational model provided by the state. It is no coincidence from this perspective that Plato's most celebrated work (The Republic) is dedicated to the description of an ideal state. When the state unites diverse groups, peoples, interests, and territories, it does so by subordinating them to an over-arching authority. It thus identifies itself with the whole, but also as something additional to - above or beyond - the whole. Its implicit ambition is to both represent and stand above its population. This ambivalence, of a whole that is simultaneously higher than - or superior to - its parts, is intrinsic to the prevailing concept of unity. 'The One' only describes completeness by producing hierarchy and centralization.
Need any possible 'One China principle' lead to such deadlock? Drawing upon strains of anti-hierarchical thought drawn from both Eastern and Western sources - both Lao-tse and Spinoza are prominent influences - Deleuze & Guattari point to a quite different type of unity to that favored by authoritarian states. They note that systems of relatively 'flat' or non-hierarchized intercommunication provide an alternative model of unity: that of an integrated network. The most important characteristic of any such system is that its unity neither stands above, nor enters into conflict with, the freedom and diversity of its parts. 'A' network, population, or economy is no less One because it is Many: its multiplicity and singularity exactly coincide.

In 'the Age of Networks' the systems that succeed and proliferate are characterized by tightly integrated but decentralized commercial, communicative, and administrative webs. Trends towards economic deregulation, globalization, and the explosive growth of wireless telecommunications and the World Wide Web have produced an environment in which rigidly monolithic institutions, whether governmental or corporate, prove ever more fundamentally dysfunctional. Downsizing, decentralization, and 'bottom-up' dynamics have become the watch-words of postmodern political, economic, and business reform.
The final level of systematic camouflage is supplied by the AOEs own dead-skin layers of polymasonic pseudo-magic: an entire artificial anthropology of robed and incense-soaked grand celestial wizards babbling senseless incantations and corrupting the magistrature. Consider the Roman Catholic church: a long-decayed zombie-cult stinking of rotten Christ-meat spasmodically pumping-out dry-ice fake-mysticism with an authoritarian slant and major mafia involvement. AOE compounds the effect by organizing periodic and increasingly theatrical assassinations of the pope. For the last half-hearted attempt they used a deranged KGB-linked Bulgarian satanist whose initials spelt the hermetic acronym AA.
Magical-Power requires a production of effective spells - order-words or command-codes - instituted by metatronic naturalization of restricted reality structures, crystallizing anti-sorcerous strategy as Read Only Memory or spent time. AOE has always understood that it is by constructing the past that one colonizes the future, founding authoritative Will in anterior decision of - big-B - Being, From created substance to programmable technicity. Sorcerous involvement is locked into magico-religious dimensions of time: past and future, programme-prophecy slicing through spiralling coincidence, vortical becomings crushed into a freezer-stack.

The White Atlantean tradition takes an initial lie and turns it into chip-architecture. It lenses through Plato, inheriting an entire metafictional relay-series - nine-millennia of pre-packaged fake-time - back from Socrates, through three generations of the Critias paternal-line, to Solon, and the Egyptian priesthood, returning to the white-out inundation of a lost-continent, clean slate. Plato's Atlanteanism assumes periodic hydro-annihilations of literate culture. These catastrophic erasures of all recordings that provide an abstract state-format social- amnesia slot for massive artifial-memory implants: starting again from transcendent unity. AOE origin of Western philosophy, or magico-religious metamyth Post-diluvian brain-washing command-logic sedimented into grid-print hardware and cross-coded by tight-syntax social-control.

 Jungle technics severs the cereberal core-texts from their spinal columns of support and cuts copyright adrift from its feudal docking station. Libraries burning in Babylon. Knowledge is decoded from its proprietary grid of occult encryption. The academy in flames. Possessed personal information transmutes into dispossessed impersonal data: sampled, stretched and layered into freeware.

Jungle rewinds and reloads conventional time into silicon blips of speed and slowness that combust the slag-heaps of historical carbon-dating. The past is passed, left behind in a museum case of oedipal mumies belching dust and warnings of ôrevolutionary heritageö. The eternally deferred eschatologies of the left are consigned to the white trash-can of the future and leave a present tense with synthetic possibilites. Between the vertical of retrospective sedimentation and the horizontal of never-coming contradictory crises, jungle finds a diagonal that flees the ossified relics of the dialectic. Synthetic rhythms junk progressive-linear temporality: samplers make time for the future.

Jungle as a space dislocator, destratifying cities snarled in an arcane surveillance apparatus. An operating system opening an invisible and acephalic matrix traversed by cars geared by bassomatic transmissions and orbited by nomadic satellites of clubs, clandestine studios and the black economies of dub plates and mix tapes.

Don't get into a false sense of security. It's not just music. Jungle is the abstract diagram of planetary inhuman becoming. Dread out of control. A post-spectacular immersive tactility that no humanist vision can put you in touch with. Smiling Californian cyberoptimism is as grotesquely archaic as scowling aryan Europessimism. 
Egggg-laying machines in the studio walls.

trading places, swapping codes, endless replications of micro-situational engineering

Soft-machine buzz and slogan-contagion.
Cities synthesizing inhuman desires.
Psychogeography escapes the concentrational talking head-line, chattering classifications, and becomes something else.

1996. Paris in flames,
Revolution has gone K-space native, become darker.
No demands. No hint of strategy. No logic. No hopes. No end.
Its politics on TV again. But out in the jungle it's war. 
 Historical staging swallowed by machinic phase change.
Nothing runs to plan. The future's already assembled, but not by design. Sub-bass materialist concurrence emerging out of order.
-it's metrophage rush hour and you've lost the plot. organs flicking out into grubby dataspace, mtv'd on synthetix
tactics tag tattoo voodoo you

The living jungle, where no-one has a name, and to survive is to activate mutant lines, become imperceptible in order to percieve, tracking chromatic gradients of intensity across the condo wastelands.
Predator.

the space-time of hypercommoditisation is a nomoid zone of mad clusters where the polis disintegrates into unintelligible webs of swarmachinery.
Schizophrenic capitalism: cultures without a society, a mutant topology of unanticipated connections
Be hivelocity and if you think its gonna blow....you haven't seen anything yet. Wildstyle - wasting the interminable punctual history of the scriborgs.
points failure on the paris metro. snowcrash. there's no point going on. Jus catch a line going wild over to the darkside.
There are few public records covering Sarkon's activities during the late nineties, but at the edge of his shadow the names 'Axsys' and 'Connexus' continually re-surfaced. Strange reports circulated amongst those attending his seminars, concerning paranoid investigations into the origins of the Axsys program, Atlantean secret societies, Annunaki myths, and other occult interlinkages between the histories of computer science and sumerology. Amongst his colleagues at MVU he speculated openly about an alien hyperintelligence that was pursuing us out of deep time, endlessly refolding itself, minute by minute, as it followed the line of sexigesimal continuity. Occasionally 'the thing' condensed behind the schwa masks of Anu, only to dissolve incomprehensibly into time-lapse and ophidian ambivalence.
Deprogramming simultaneously retro-produced the program, just as witch-trials preceded devil-worship and regressive hypnotherapy preceded false memory syndrome. Yet, once these ‘fictions’ are produced, they function in and as reality. It isn’t that belief in Project Monarch produces the Monarch Program, but rather that such belief produces equivalent effects to those the reality of Project Monarch would produce, including some that are extremely peculiar and counter-intuitive.

Within the paranoid mode of the double game even twins are turned so as to confirm a persecutory unity - that of the puppet master, the reflection of God, the Monarch.

How absurd to imagine that Lemurian Pandemonium has One purpose or function, or that it could support the throne of a Monarch. From the perspective of Pandemonium gods and their conspiracies emerge all over the place, in countless numbers. “My name is Legion, for we are many..”

Unity is only ever a project, a teleological aspiration, never a real presupposition or actual foundation. Monarch paranoia is primordially an allergic panic response to seething, teeming Pandemonic multiplicity. Everywhere it looks it finds the same enemy, the Rorschach-blotted hallucinations of the Evil One masked deliriously in its myriads of deviations, digressions and discrepancies.

In the hands of Justine Morrison, Monarch Paranoia is an overt attempt to overcode Lemurian polyculture through the attribution of unitary purpose (reducing it to the White Atlantean theme). Ccru denounces this endeavor in the strongest possible terms.

