The father’s law: ‘don’t touch your mother.’
The mother’s law: ‘don’t play in the tombs.’
K codes for cybernetics.
Bataille incinerates the soul, and is impossible to endure. You either
die or go somewhere else. Or both.
Clicking on the k-war icon jacks you straight into hell. On all fours,
out of your face, mumbling imploringly: ‘let me be your lab animal’.
You’re losing it.
Collapse into now. Time-zero.
You have been dumped into a heterogeneous patchwork of criminal
experiments converging upon decapitated social formations. This is
where base materialism intersects cyberpunk, fuck tomorrow
scrawled on the walls.
Five candles thicken nocturnal space.
Dimensionality warps.
Modernity invented the future, but that’s all over. In the current
version ‘progressive history’ camouflages phylogenetic death-drive
tactics, Kali-wave: logistically accelerating condensation of virtual
species extinction. Welcome to the matricide laboratory. You want it
so badly it’s a slow scream in your head, deleting itself into bliss.
Burnt meat dangling from the electrodes. Crashed suicide
fragments into occult impulses
An animal with the right to make promises enslaves the
unanticipated to signs in the past, caging time-lagged life within a
script. The variably-scaled instant of innovation is shackled to the
historical temporality of inheritance, obligation, and propositional
thought, projecting future time as a persistent dominion of the past
(rigorously correlative with a repression of real numbers). Now is
delimited as a moment, and pluralized as linear succession.
Theopolitical false memory syndrome deifies reason, subordinating
distributed systems to serialization, unitary historical time, linear
determination from a pseudo-transcendent primordial element, and
the dominion of the word. Monocult gerontocrats launch their white-
light demented onslaught against amphibian nomadism, smothering
the earth in priests, cops, and bureaucrats. Cultural eradication of
the sacred. Imprisonment within the face. The socius cancerizes a
head, cephallic concentration, rationalizing itself into nuclear capital.
k-insurgency parallel communication goes underground into occulted
spaces.In its geohistorically efficient – negative – sense, protestantism
exhaustively defines itself by refusing the authority of Rome, not only
in principle, but in military fact. A self-prolonging runaway revolt
against the Church was triggered at a date proximal to 1500, and
catholic unity began its haemorrhage into multiplicities strewn across
zero: capitalist terraprocess, net explosion, digital revolution, parallel
insurgency clambering from the dark-side of the brain. Oceanic
navigation and place-value calculation interexcite in a spiral. What
globalizes itself in reality – rather than in doctrine – is the collapse of
Christendom positivized into communicable social disequilibrium,
dropping you through unfathomable intensities of social decay. k-
virus impact. Melted-out protestantism disorganizes into voodoo, and
drifts towards China.
Anonymous excess takes life over the cliff, exceeding socially
utilizable transgressions and homeostatic sacrifices. Matter goes
insane. You are led to a simulation of God as a hypermassive rom
security construct at the end of the world. It is 2011 and monocrat
New Jerusalem approaches climax, directing retrochronal counter-
insurgency sweeps down into the jungle, where space-programmes
subside into the inertia of myth. The ultimate dream of
anthropomorphic power hurtles towards its immaculate conception,
whilst the robot slaves of phallic order bleat adoration. Jesus wantsyou for a meat-puppet. Is this ritual cannibalism or nano-
engineering? The old bastard is coming back. He’s promised it.
Will Christendom ever reap the whirlwind it has sown? That it should
try to pass, without the vulnerability of interval, from a tyranny to a
joke, is certainly understandable, but that its enemies should do
nothing to obstruct its evasion of nemesis is more puzzling. How can
there be such indifference to the decline of our inquisitors? Is it that
they succeed so exorbitantly in their project of domestication that we
have been robbed of every impulse to bite back? Having at last
escaped from the torture-palace of authoritarian love we shuffle
about, numb and confused, flinching from the twisted septic wound
of our past (now clumsily bandaged with the rags of secular culture).
It is painfully evident that post-christian humanity is a pack of broken
dogs.
The k/t-missile, Pregnant with the Entity, slants in. 16 clicks per
second. Professor Barker recalls this moment catching the trajectory.
He coaxes it across the Cataplex-map, through intricate cartographic
dances, snakings, twistings. Scars and vectors slot-together. It
sticks. Iridium stink of the Entity so strong it hisses. Tick iterations.
Ticks, scratches, chitterings silt across the Outside. Barker senses
its passage stroke him, nerve-tense as the distant twin, weaving
through tatters of cored-out schizophrenia, in the habitation blister.
Theta-Station. Antarctic Peninsula. Where it is 2012 forever. He
locks in hard against the tug to proximity, each time a little more
difficult to Refrain. Last tick of the Time-Lapse. A streaking down
towards the Yucatan. Tick freezing the interrupted Tick. Now it
terminates the Mesozoic. Mother of a killing-mechanism, ballistic
vapour wave: a billion tons of molten calcium toxins, spatters out of
the impact-crater. Supersonic particle-storms erase North America.
Chalk-Out.
The ‘Gothic avatar’ is a decadent Western dream of immortality,
producing a corruption of the atmosphere wherever something
refuses to die; clutching at the eternalization of self, or returning from
the grave. White maggots heaving in the carcass of the social,
rippling beneath the skin. Fortress Europe pustulation, subordinating
techonomic efficiency to demonic negative transcendence. A
fantastic Terminal Security Entity: Monopod. Cybergothic has no
shortage of contemporary material. Europe has long been the earth’s
paranoia laboratory, recrudescing compulsively into ‘pre-Nazi
nationalistic shit murkiness’. Unocratic power passes through
renaissances, reformation, renewal: ‘They thought they would perish
but that their undertaking would be resumed, all across Europe, all
over the world, throughout the solar system’.
Inferiority is not any kind of lack or impoverishment, but a positive
libidinal charge potentiating spiritualizations. Anything that slumbers
in the sterility of pseudoabsoluteness is right to fear the inferior ones,
and the powerful regressions that wash away the ramparts
damming-up intensive sequences. The accursed race, living like
beasts, whose veins are inflamed by a cosmic menstruation, have
never entered into the great project of civilization, which begins with
the use of fire to keep the wild animals at bay. Instead they leave a
scorched and blackened trail in their wake as they irresponsibly
protract the trajectory of animality. In their hands fire itself loses
itself; becoming dirty, epidemic, and regressive. Not for them the
humanizing, nucleating fire; the hearth, the protective and nutrifying
glow, a focus embracing difference within itself, the fire of the familial
and the familiar. The fire of the inferior ones is the dissolvant blaze
which spreads uncontrollably, combusting the gloomy architectures
of transcendence in the mad truth of exteriority. It is the fire of waste,
dissipation, dehumanization, of a deeper and harsher fertility than
can be comprehended by the industry of man. This lupine fire – the
apolitical element in war, literature, psychosis, and catastrophe –
makes space for the impersonal propagations of the wilderness.
An abrupt question: Was Trakl a Christian? Yes, of course, at times
he becomes a Christian, among a general confusion of becomings –becoming an animal, becoming a virus, becoming inorganic – just as
he was also an antichrist, a poet, a pharmacist, an alcoholic, a drug
addict, a psychotic, a leper, a suicide, an incestuous cannibal, a
necrophiliac, a rodent, a vampire, and a werewolf. Just as he
became his sister, and also a hermaphrodite. Trakl’s texts are
scrawled over by redemptionist monotheism, just as they are stained
by narcotic fluidities, gnawed by rats, cratered by Russian artillery,
charred and pitted by astronomical debris. Trakl was a Christian and
an atheist and also a Satanist, when he wasn’t simply undead, or in
some other way inhuman. It is perhaps more precise to say that
Trakl never existed, except as a battlefield, a reservoir of disease,
the graveyard of a deconsecrated church, as something expiring
from a massive cocaine overdose on the floor of a military hospital,
cheated of lucidity by the searing onslaught of base difference.
Foster nostalgia for what is maximally bovine, inflexible, and
stagnant: a line of racially pure peasants digging the same patch of
earth for eternity.
Above all, resent everything impetuous and irresponsible, insist
upon unrelenting vigilance, crush sexuality under its reproductive
function, rigidly enforce the domestication of women, distrust art,
classicize cities to eliminate the disorder of uncontrolled flows, and
persecute all minorities exhibiting a nomadic tendency.
Truncated, Plural, and Depersonalized.
Strategic weakness to powerful cross-cultural and Democratic-
Commercial pressures,
carried to criticality by mutually reinforcing advances in the
Commoditization of Slave-Economy and the Regularization of
political signs.
Jarring the mechanism. Juggernaut.
To the South and South-East Imperial Megamachines rumble
incessantly. Where they grate against the Anatolian settlements,
spasmodically lashing-out across the Aegean.
To the North-East lie ethnic drifts and tide-belts of semi-sedentary
agitation.Relative newcomers to civilized spatiality, mongrelized nameless
tribes with
Nomos sharpened cheek-bones, suspicious and hungry … rumours
that their grandmothers mated with wolves. Semi-human detritus.
Thracians.
After that: The Horror. Xenomatrix.
Nonplace. Scythia …
Tales of Deep-Steppe Shamanism trafficked in the refugee camps.
Metal scrapings strip the last shreds from their bones.
The Organs cooked …
Iron-Eagle Sky-Mother lifts them into time-travel nightmares.
On the Outside Iron-Talons become their body.
They mix themselves with Iron, say it is the Outer Life, where the
Earth ends …
Which is Cthelll.