We have been up all night, my friends and I, beneath mosque lamps whose brass
cupolas are bright as our souls, because like them they were illuminated by the
internal glow of electric hearts. And trampling underfoot our native sloth on opulent
Persian carpets, we have been discussing right up to the limits of logic and scrawling
the paper with demented writing.
Our hearts were filled with an immense pride at feeling ourselves standing quite
alone, like lighthouses or like the sentinels in an outpost, facing the army of enemy
stars encamped in their celestial bivouacs. Alone with the engineers in the infernal
stokeholes of great ships, alone with the black spirits which rage in the belly of rogue
locomotives, alone with the drunkards beating their wings against the walls.
Then we were suddenly distracted by the rumbling of huge double decker trams that
went leaping by, streaked with light like the villages celebrating their festivals, which
the Po in flood suddenly knocks down and uproots, and, in the rapids and eddies of a
deluge, drags down to the sea.
Then the silence increased. As we listened to the last faint prayer of the old canal
and the crumbling of the bones of the moribund palaces with their green growth of
beard, suddenly the hungry automobiles roared beneath our windows.
`Come, my friends!' I said. `Let us go! At last Mythology and the mystic cult of the
ideal have been left behind. We are going to be present at the birth of the centaur
and we shall soon see the first angels fly! We must break down the gates of life to
test the bolts and the padlocks! Let us go! Here is they very first sunrise on earth!
Nothing equals the splendor of its red sword which strikes for the first time in our
millennial darkness.'
1. We want to sing the love of danger, the habit of energy and rashness.
2. The essential elements of our poetry will be courage, audacity and
revolt.
3. Literature has up to now magnified pensive immobility, ecstasy and
slumber. We want to exalt movements of aggression, feverish
sleeplessness, the double march, the perilous leap, the slap and the blow
with the fist.
4. We declare that the splendor of the world has been enriched by a new
beauty: the beauty of speed. A racing automobile with its bonnet adorned
with great tubes like serpents with explosive breath ... a roaring motor car
which seems to run on machine-gun fire, is more beautiful than the Victory
of Samothrace.
5. We want to sing the man at the wheel, the ideal axis of which crosses
the earth, itself hurled along its orbit.
6. The poet must spend himself with warmth, glamour and prodigality to
increase the enthusiastic fervor of the primordial elements.
7. Beauty exists only in struggle. There is no masterpiece that has not an
aggressive character. Poetry must be a violent assault on the forces of the
unknown, to force them to bow before man.
8. We are on the extreme promontory of the centuries! What is the use of
looking behind at the moment when we must open the mysterious shutters
of the impossible? Time and Space died yesterday. We are already living in
the absolute, since we have already created eternal, omnipresent speed.
9. We want to glorify war - the only cure for the world - militarism,
patriotism, the destructive gesture of the anarchists, the beautiful ideas
which kill, and contempt for woman.
10. We want to demolish museums and libraries, fight morality, feminism
and all opportunist and utilitarian cowardice.
11. We will sing of the great crowds agitated by work, pleasure and revolt;
the multi-colored and polyphonic surf of revolutions in modern capitals: the
nocturnal vibration of the arsenals and the workshops beneath their violent
electric moons: the gluttonous railway stations devouring smoking
serpents; factories suspended from the clouds by the thread of their
smoke; bridges with the leap of gymnasts flung across the diabolic cutlery
of sunny rivers: adventurous steamers sniffing the horizon; great-breasted
locomotives, puffing on the rails like enormous steel horses with long tubes
for bridle, and the gliding flight of aeroplanes whose propeller sounds like
the flapping of a flag and the applause of enthusiastic crowds.
It is in Italy that we are issuing this manifesto of ruinous and incendiary violence, by
which we today are founding Futurism, because we want to deliver Italy from its
gangrene of professors, archaeologists, tourist guides and antiquaries.
Italy has been too long the great second-hand market. We want to get rid of the
innumerable museums which cover it with innumerable cemeteries.
Museums, cemeteries! Truly identical in their sinister juxtaposition of bodies that do
not know each other. Public dormitories where you sleep side by side for ever with
beings you hate or do not know. Reciprocal ferocity of the painters and sculptors who
murder each other in the same museum with blows of line and color. To make a visit
once a year, as one goes to see the graves of our dead once a year, that we could
allow! We can even imagine placing flowers once a year at the feet of the Gioconda!
But to take our sadness, our fragile courage and our anxiety to the museum every
day, that we cannot admit! Do you want to poison yourselves? Do you want to rot?
What can you find in an old picture except the painful contortions of the artist trying
to break uncrossable barriers which obstruct the full expression of his dream?
To admire an old picture is to pour our sensibility into a funeral urn instead of casting
it forward with violent spurts of creation and action. Do you want to waste the best part of your strength in a useless admiration of the past, from which you will emerge
exhausted, diminished, trampled on?
Indeed daily visits to museums, libraries and academies (those cemeteries of wasted
effort, calvaries of crucified dreams, registers of false starts!) is for artists what
prolonged supervision by the parents is for intelligent young men, drunk with their
own talent and ambition.
For the dying, for invalids and for prisoners it may be all right. It is, perhaps, some
sort of balm for their wounds, the admirable past, at a moment when the future is
denied them. But we will have none of it, we, the young, strong and living Futurists!
Let the good incendiaries with charred fingers come! Here they are! Heap up the fire
to the shelves of the libraries! Divert the canals to flood the cellars of the museums!
Let the glorious canvases swim ashore! Take the picks and hammers! Undermine the
foundation of venerable towns!