Jameson equates the postmodern ‘waning of historicity’ with the ‘cultural logic of late capitalism’, but
he says little about why the two are synonymous. Why did the arrival of neoliberal, post-Fordist
capitalism lead to a culture of retrospection and pastiche? Perhaps we can venture a couple of
provisional conjectures here. The first concerns consumption. Could it be that neoliberal capitalism’s
destruction of solidarity and security brought about a compensatory hungering for the well-established
and the familiar? Paul Virilio has written of a ‘polar inertia’ that is a kind of effect of and counterweight
to the massive speeding up of communication. Virilio’s example is Howard Hughes, living in one hotel
room for 15 years, endlessly rewatching Ice Station Zebra. Hughes, once a pioneer in aeronautics, became
an early explorer of the existential terrain that cyberspace will open up, where it is no longer necessary
to physically move in order to access the whole history of culture. Or, as Berardi has argued, the
intensity and precariousness of late capitalist work culture leaves people in a state where they are
simultaneously exhausted and overstimulated. The combination of precarious work and digital
communications leads to a besieging of attention. In this insomniac, inundated state, Berardi claims,
culture becomes de-eroticised. The art of seduction takes too much time, and, according to Berardi,
something like Viagra answers not to a biological but to a cultural deficit: desperately short of time,
energy and attention, we demand quick fixes. Like another of Berardi’s examples, pornography, retro
offers the quick and easy promise of a minimal variation on an already familiar satisfaction.
The other explanation for the link between late capitalism and retrospection centres on production.
Despite all its rhetoric of novelty and innovation, neoliberal capitalism has gradually but systematically
deprived artists of the resources necessary to produce the new. In the UK, the postwar welfare state and
higher education maintenance grants constituted an indirect source of funding for most of the
experiments in popular culture between the 1960s and the 80s. The subsequent ideological and practical
attack on public services meant that one of the spaces where artists could be sheltered from the pressure
to produce something that was immediately successful was severely circumscribed. As public service
broadcasting became ‘marketised’, there was an increased tendency to turn out cultural productions that
resembled what was already successful. The result of all of this is that the social time available for
withdrawing from work and immersing oneself in cultural production drastically declined. If there’s one
factor above all else which contributes to cultural conservatism, it is the vast inflation in the cost of rent
and mortgages. It’s no accident that the efflorescence of cultural invention in London and New York in
the late 1970s and early 80s (in the punk and postpunk scenes) coincided with the availability of
squatted and cheap property in those cities. Since then, the decline of social housing, the attacks on
squatting, and the delirious rise in property prices have meant that the amount of time and energy
available for cultural production has massively diminished. But perhaps it was only with the arrival of
digital communicative capitalism that this reached terminal crisis point. Naturally, the besieging of
attention described by Berardi applies to producers as much as consumers. Producing the new depends
upon certain kinds of withdrawal – from, for instance, sociality as much as from pre-existing cultural
forms – but the currently dominant form of socially networked cyberspace, with its endless opportunities
for micro-contact and its deluge of YouTube links, has made withdrawal more difficult than ever before.
Or, as Simon Reynolds so pithily put it, in recent years, everyday life has sped up, but culture has slowed
down.
No matter what the causes for this temporal pathology are, it is clear that no area of Western culture is
immune from them. The former redoubts of futurism, such as electronic music, no longer offer escape
from formal nostalgia. Music culture is in many ways paradigmatic of the fate of culture under post￾Fordist capitalism. At the level of form, music is locked into pastiche and repetition. But its infrastructure
has been subject to massive, unpredictable change: the old paradigms of consumption, retail and
distribution are disintegrating, with downloading eclipsing the physical object, record shops closing and
cover art disappearing.