The citie of Mosko is supposed to be of
great antiquitie, though the first founder be
vnknowen to the Russe. It seemeth to haue
takē the name from the riuer that runeth on
the one side of the town. Berosus the Chaldean
in his 5. book telleth that Nimrod (whom other
prophane stories cal Saturn) sēt Assyrius,
Medus, Moscus, & Magog into Asia to plant
colonies there, and that Moscus planted
both in Asia and Europe. Which may make
some probability, that the city, or rather the
riuer whereon it is built, tooke the denomi∣nation
from this Moscus: the rather bicause
of the climate or situation, which is in the ve∣ry
farthest part and list of Europe, bordering
vpon Asia. The citie was much enlarged by
one Euan or Iohn, sonne to Daniel, that first
changed his title of Duke into King: though
that honour continued not to his posterity:
the rather because he was inuested into it by
the Popes Legate, who at that time was In∣nocentius
the fourth about the yeere 1246.
which was very much misliked by the Russe
people, being then a part of the Easterne or
Greeke Church, Since that time the name of
this citie hath growen more famous, and bet∣ter
knowen to the worlde: insomuch that
not onely the prouince, but the whole coun∣trey
of Russia is tearmed by some by the
name of Moscouia the Metropolite citie. The
forme of this citie is in manner round with
three strong walles, circuling the one within
the other, and streets lying betweene, wherof
the inmost wall, and the buildings closed
within it (lying safest as the heart within the
bodie, fenced and watred with the riuer Moskua,
that runneth close by it) is all accounted
the Emperours castle.
The next in greatnes, and in a man∣ner
as large, is the citie Nouograde: where was
committed (as the Russe saith) the memora∣ble
warre so much spoke of in stories of the
Scythian seruants, that tooke armes against
their maisters: which they report in this
sort: vz. That the Boiarens or Gentlemen of
Nouograde and the territorie about (which
onely are souldiers after the discipline of
those countries) had warre with the Tartars.
Which being well perfourmed and ended by
thē, they returned homewards. Where they
vnderstood by the way that their Cholopey
or bondslaues whome they left at home, had
in their absence possessed their townes, lands,
houses, wiues, and all. At which newes be∣ing
somewhat amased, and yet disdayning
the villanie of their seruants, they made the
more speed home: and so not farre from No∣uograd
met them in warlike manner march∣ing
against them. Whereupon aduising what
was best to bee done, they agreed all to set
vpon them with no other shewe of weapon
but with their horse whips (which as their
manner is euery man rideth withall) to put
them in remembrance of their seruile condition,
thereby to terrifie them, & abate their
courage. And so marching on & lashing altogither
with their whips in their hands they
gaue the onset. Which seemed so terrible in
the eares of their villaines, and stroke such a
sense into them of the smart of the whip
which they had felt before, that they fled altogether
like sheepe before the driuers. In
memory of this victory the Nouogradiās euer
since haue stāped their coine (which they cal
a dingoe Nouogrodskoy currāt through al Russia)
with the figure of a horseman shaking a
whip a loft in his hand. These two cities exceed
the rest in greatnes. For strength their
chief townes are Vobsko, Smolensko, Cazan &
Astracan, as liyng vpon the borders.
That their auncestrie came not of the Russe
nation,Iuan vasilowich father to this Emperour
would many times boast, disdaining (as
should seeme) to haue his progenie deriued
from the Russe bloud. As namely to an Eng∣lishman
his goldsmith, that had receiued bullion
of him to make certain plate: whom the
Emperour commaunded to looke well to his
waight. For my Russes (sayd he) are theeues
all. Whereat the workeman looking vpon
the Emperour, began to smile. The Empe∣rour
being of quicke conceipt, charged him
to tell him what he smiled at. If your Ma∣iestie
will pardon me (quoth the goldsmith)
I will tell you. Your highnesse said that the
Russes were all theeues, and forgot in the
meane while that your selfe was a Russe. I
thought so (quoth the Emperour) but thou
art deceiued. For I am no Russe, my auncestors
were Germanes (for so they account of the
Hungarians to be part of the Germane natiōn)
though in deed they come of the Hunnes.
That inuaded those countries and rested in
those parts of Pannonia, now called Hungary.
The last are their Commons, whom they
call Mousicks. In which number they reckon
their Marchants, & their common artificers.
The very lowest and basest sort of this kind
(which are held in no degree) are their coūntrie
people whom they call Christianeis. Of
the Sina boiarskey (which are all souldiers) we
are to see in the description of their forces, &
military prouisions. Concerning their Mousicks,
what their condition & behauiour is, in
the title or chapter Of the common people.
Which needes they must doo beyng
of the qualitie of Souldiours, and enioying
withal that free libertie of wronging & spoiling
of the commons at their pleasure, which
is permitted them of purpose, to make them
haue a liking of the present state. As for the
agreement of the Souldiers and commons,
it is a thing not to be feared, beyng of so
opposite and contrarie practise much one to
the other. This desperate state of things at
home, maketh the people for the most part
to wishe for some forreine inuasion, which
they suppose to bee the onely meanes, to rid
them of the heauy yoke of this tyrannous
gouernment.
When Basileus first conquered those countries,
he suffered the natiues to keepe their
possessions, and to inhabite all their townes,
onely paying him a tribute, vnder the go∣uernment
of his Russe Captaines. But by their
conspiracies and attempts not long after, he
was taught to deale more surely with them.
And so comming vpon them the second
time, hee killed and carried away with him,
three partes of foure, which hee gaue or
solde to the Tartars that serued him in
those warres, and in steede of them placed
there his Russes, so many as might ouer∣match
the rest, with certaine garrisons of
strength besides. Wherein notwithstanding
this ouersight was committed, for that taking
away with him the vpland, or countrie
people (that should haue tilled the ground,
and might easily haue bene kept in order
without any daunger, by other good pollicies)
he was driuen afterwards many yeares
together, to vittaile the countrie (specially
the great townes) out of his owne countrie
of Russia, the soile lying there in the meane
while wast, and vntilled.
Herein they differ from the Turkish religion,
for that they haue certeine idole puppets
made of silke, or like stuffe, of the fashion
of a man, which they fasten to the doore
of their walking houses, to be as Ianusses or
keepers of their house. And these idols are
made not by all, but by certeine religious
women, which they haue among them for
that, & like vses. They haue besides the image
of their King or great Cham, of an huge bignes
which they erect at euery stage: when the
army marcheth: & this euery one must bend
and bowe vnto as hee passeth by it, bee
he Tartar, or stranger. They are much giuen
to witchcraft, & ominous coniectures, vpon
euery accident which they heare, or see.
In making of mariages they haue no
regard of alliance or consanguinitie. Onely
with his mother, sister, and daughter a man
may not marrie, and though hee take the
woman into his house, and accompany with
her, yet hee accounteth her not for his wife,
till he haue a childe by her. Then he beginneth
to take a dowrie of her friendes of
horse, sheepe, kyne, &c. If she be barren after
a certeine time, he turneth her home againe.
The most rude & barbarous is coūted the
Mordwit Tartar, that hath many self fashiōs,
& strange kinds of behauiour, differing frō
the rest. For his religiō, thogh he acknowlege
one god, yet his maner is to worship for god,
that liuing thing, that he first meeteth in the
morning & to sweare by it al that whole day
whether it be horse, dogge, catte, or whatsoeuer
els it be. When his friend dieth, he killeth
his best horse, and hauing flayed off the
skin he carrieth it on high vpon a long pole,
before the corpes to the place of buriall.
This hee doeth (as the Russe sayeth) that
his friend may haue a good horse to carie
him to heauen: but it is likelier to declare his
loue towardes his dead friende, in that hee
will haue to die with him the best thing that
hee hath.



