Long, black, metal rods falling from the sky. They do that sometimes. At first you only see them for a second, and you can’t hear them. Then they hit the wet soil. The soil aerosolizes, and, if you’re outside, it sprays all over you like a filthied hose. Wet chunks of peat and dead insect on your face.
The noise is the worst part. It’s a loud boom that echoes throughout your entire body. It’s the splitting and piercing of thin membranes with blood and mucus pouring all over your skin.
I barely remember when the first one of them hit. They were smaller, then.
We were near one of those nu-type oceans. Brackish and full of slugs that weren’t slugs. Simpler, more formless, with an undulating light pink skin. I tried a handful of that water. It tasted like burnt marshmallows and cigarette ash.
It was an endless expanse of them, extending towards a forever-horizon. Cement-cum-polished-basalt pathways split the oceans into a sharp, calculated grid, each ocean cut roughly into the size of a lake.
I was there with my cousin, snuggling my frustum into his translucent arm-flesh. He smelled... pleasant. Like ash and iron. He smirked at me, and I smirked back. He kissed me on the cheek, and I kissed back. We kissed a kiss of fraternity. Our lips touched, and it was brotherhood.
There was a sharp flash of pain as shards of cement cut open my face. I could taste blood and aggregate. The black stone contacted my wounds and seared them shut. Massive, grotesque insectoids were emerging from the oceans as I stared from the ground. Their carapaces were thick and greasy, like oiled cast iron, with a few thousand distended legs carrying themselves out of the lakes. They made clicking noises, clicking noises that echoed throughout my head.
As I blinked, there stood an iron rod. An iron rod in the center of the lake. Most of the water had been splashed out of the lake, leaving it little more than a puddle. The insectoids were gone, the air still, and I could feel the body of my cousin underneath me. He was cold, cold as stone. His neck ended at a shattered stump. I saw it as a tree, the stump of the oldest tree in the mountains of Caliphornia, its rings burnt and mutilated by insects wearing the skins of men.
Today I sat by my cousin, outside on the patio of our home. His neck-flesh was still tender. We haven’t seen each other much lately. My father, that strange man, took me in for the time my cousin was in recovery. I lived in his sheet-metal Condo, sweating brown, viscous sweat at night with Father, our room always smelling foul in the morning. He told me, once, “Small bugs live inside the Earth. They crawl out at night and eat feces and blood and rotten meat. They’re told by the moon when to come out and blossom. She’s alive, you know—ancient civilizations, the Americans, Pan-Europeans, Eurasians—believed she represented some cosmic hominid, or that a rabbit lived on her. We modernites know that’s kadda with our geotraumatics. She’s the dual twin of the masculine earth, both objective hermaphrodites in the form of a binary field system, an obscene forever-coitus production machine with a bicameral mind even greater than the most-tokenized aye-machine. The small bugs, well, they’re good. But then there’s the large
 bugs—pedigree inbred abominations, grub-locust-maggot-fly hybrids, painted jezebels wearing flesh-colour make-up pretending to be our leaders, our bankers, our forefathers.”
I laid in bed, humid air washing over me, and I pondered that. I felt Father’s breath on my skin. It was warm, and manly, and full of masculine vitality.
I woke in the night, a dark spot, still wet slightly, on the sheets I held. There was that luminant flash that iron rods made in low light, diffused through the greased-paper windows of the condo. The corrugated roof shuddered with the shockwave, while aerosolized soil tip-tapped on the window.
I got onto my knees, just staring, just waiting.
It’s a bog out here. Warm one year, Cold the next two. They say it’s geoengineering, but I don’t trust them. They say a man with a hole in his head led a complete revolution in art by making flashies of girls in different colours, but I don’t trust them. They have the heads of dogs but the bodies of men, and I don’t trust them. Once, one of them handed me a tin of red soup, and told me, “You’re a bohemian with this, son.” They lick their teeth when they’re eyeing you, and he licked his teeth then. I threw it back at him, his jaw splitting in half, teeth and gums and icky sloppy stuff oozing out. I called him a bugman and shouted that I’d rather be an itinerant verdungkinder than a bohemian. My cousin caught up to me and had to throw me to the ground. I loved how the dirt tasted that day, and the feeling of his vulcanized rubber sole on my neck.
And I saw them, both, at night. Projecting onto my skin while I was kneeling through the greased-paper window where the shadow of a dog-headed man with a split jaw like the mandibles of an insect, and an oily iron-carapaced arthropod, stood.
For an hour or so, I stared. Both stared back. I laid with my father, my back to the window, and attempted to sleep.
It was a fairly diffuse light through the window, then, that awoke me. I crawled onto my forehands and my father crawled up onto me as well, his warmth filling my squishy offal. “Watchers”, he half-mumbled through his tired breath, “They found us.”.
He shouted at me to leave; I ran and I ran to the exit door as he prepared to slaughter for loves and brotherhoods and sons.
I ended up back with my cousin. We stayed in his squat with the other 4 or so people there. And the iron rods kept falling.
I saw one strike one of those vile insect-beasts, and after the flash and blood-rending noise, the insect-beast was split into a thousand independent undulating halves, all crawling aimlessly.
The nu-type oceans are getting worse as well. Cousin took me to one yesterday, and the oceans were frothing up like coffee and the slugs that aren’t slugs were all dead and butchered and dog-headed men were all around.
We left.
We left and Cousin says the dog-headed men are in power and they’re making the metal rods fall and they’re filling their coffers with blood money paying insectoid thugs to destroy homosexuality forever and replace it with aimless, formless, worthless libido.

Father sent a letter saying he’s joining the militia to fight them, to slaughter each and every last one of them to protect the earth and the moon and love and life and freedom.
I’ve been working, working on myself. Cousin says Father will be proud when he gets back from the War of Eternal Struggle and Liberty.
I wish to join the militia, to kill all the dog-men and the bug-men. I’ve been swimming in the nu-type oceans and slaughtering and butchering the slugs that aren’t slugs to eat to grow big and strong in time for the draft that Cousin says is coming.
And the iron rods keep falling.
I visited Father’s house yesterday, and it was a crater, a crater full of muck and shrapnel and bug-juice.