if you wanted a clean argument for how to be a furry without ignorant people calling you a zoophile, i’m sorry. being a furry is a gesture towards the zoophilic, you’re taking pleasure in that which is inhuman, not to skirt consent, but to be sexual and sensual as what you feel you truly are. you’ll never find an easy line in the sand to draw, you’ll never convince normies that being attracted to furries is exactly the same as being attracted to people, and doing so implies furrydom to be colorless and sterile. you can’t unsay what you know to be true in your heart, it’s too late. 
sometimes u watch a movie and the characters look like animals but they act like people so you start mentally interfacing with them as you would with people and also you’re gay and repressed and its easier to conceptualize attraction to an animal than it is to understand that you’re not straight
furry twitter incest drama that likely not many of you were present for. just seeing a guy say an incredibly common reaction to trauma should be openly called out & shot down wherever it may arise, and watching it get misrepresented in real time like “oh my god, all these perverts are freaking out over an innocuous statement, he JUST said that he should be ALLOWED to think incest is gross! some people have trauma” and then the other half just actually posting incest porn in his mentions like it just shouldn’t bother anyone. really a perfect storm of awful half-formed moralistic takes on kink coming from both sides of the debacle. 
some people react to trauma by developing a deep and profound aversion to the subject of it, and others react in the opposite way, becoming invulnerable to it or even fetishizing it. i feel like both of these groups wanna pretend the other doesn't exist, or tend to minimize them & place their own neurological concoction as being what "trauma" is. "Don't fetishize that, some people have trauma" vs "Don't demonize people who fetishize that, in fact, tolerate it openly. some people have trauma." it's all reductive tokenization & i hate it
it feels reductive to call my interest in furries a “fetish”, even if my personal interest is primarily sexual in nature. the shit i wrote about on the flowers of robert mapplethorpe is a fetish, but being a furry is a manifestation of my autistic sexuality. It’s less that I’m turned on when people are like animals, but animal physiology & mannerisms, cartoon heightening of expressions and body language, unique textures, that’s just a landscape in which my brain has an easier time doing most things, including being horny.
Yes! With regards to beings that are actually capable of judging us significant or not, we are actually very significant. The cosmos has no opinion of us, her terrifying breadth is a non-factor in this call.
Wait, I’ve been here before
Many times I’ve breached the house that I was born in
Sleep, familiar dreams
Wading deep within the creek that I was forged in

Still, it’s always the same
She’s still there, crying in black and white

Her ears are down
Her fur is matted to her face
With no one watching her, she waits
Her fur is matted to her face
With no one watching her, she waits

I wish I could see her
I wish I could hear her
I wish I could know her
I wish I could say something
I wish I could save her
I wish I could love her
I wish I could hold her
I wish I could say something

A dog came through the window, and carried her away
He came through the window, canines were bared, yet she wasn’t scared
Nothing hurt, nothing made a sound
The window peers out to somewhere safe
Within his arms, nothing had to change
I saw that old doggy carry me

Under God, I lie
No exaltation, soul of mine
He came through the window, fearsome and fair, yet he wasn’t there
The cage, nor her rescuer, neither was real
‘Twas merely a dream within a dream
His might, nor his parenthood, neither was real
That doggy ran away from me

My soul waits by the window, her tail still held up high
She waits for a sweetness, but all that she knows are the words of her home
Sweetness is, tenderness was
A word she had never been taught
Oh she yearns, oh she ever wants
A treasure beyond her paws

If I said

“Welcome home”, meet you at the door
Would you tell me that you love me, now and evermore
And if you ever saw my hurt
Hold me close and tell me “Darling, not another word”

If I said

“You only ever meant the world to me”
Would you kiss me on the head and listen carefully
Would you give me what I didn’t have
Would you lend to me the softness of a father’s hand

This comfort, this great easement when I think of you
I understand, it was no more than a kink to you
If you had seen me wounded, as I am in truth,
Would you have gotten on to someone new?

I only say this to an empty room
When you came to me, you only came to say you’re leaving soon
I can only look upon the blood I shed for us
I loved you more than anything, but all I ever said was

I’m sorry.
Tonight, my father is coming home
As he does, when I’m troubled or hurt
He knows only softness, and peace
And it’s softness he shall serve

I know, our father is coming home
As he does, when the feeling is strong
He’s the bearer of Jesus and me
I know he won’t be long

When will father be coming home?
I’ve been good. If I hadn’t, he’d say.
Paws together, down on my knees
In silence I shall wait

When will father be coming home?
When will father be coming home?
Where is father?
Someone’s in here
Someone’s coming

Where am I?
I’ve been trapped in here for centuries
In this room, I’ve taken root
I’d resigned myself to die here
For this is all I'd ever known
You gave me something special, something sweet
You bore to me a wreath of happiness, of terrifying gold
I don’t know what you’ve done, but please
Don’t leave me here

I’m something truly rotten
I’m curdling inwards through the bone
But you knew this, I can feel it
You understood that I was broken, rancid

I’ll never let you do this
I’ll forfeit my standing in heaven to know
What it is, to be your daughter and your whore
Your image made my dreams come true
Take me out of here

Take me out of here

